The funny thing about being known for loudly demanding that scientific software
should be better written and be produced in an open collaborative fashion is
that one is then going to be publicly held to this higher standard above and
beyond what one's peers are. In July of 2013 Michael R. Crusoe became the new
software engineer in C. Titus Brown's Genomics, Evolution, and Development lab
at Michigan State University; he is now responsible for the khmer suite of
nucleotide sequence analysis tools. The khmer suite is now four years old and
the basis for N published papers and has had N different contributors. 

Michael's background includes computer systems engineering, free and
open-source systems, and microbiology; this combined with his prior experience
as a user of the khmer suite gave him plenty of standing to generate opinions
about how to implement Titus's goal of "superior science through superior
software." [cite] To guide this process the Software Sustainability Institute's
Criteria-based assessment checklist [cite] was applied to the project and the
results shared with community [cite, storify the tweets?].

The summary of that report: "Two categories of criteria: Usability, and
Sustainability & Maintainability. Within Usability the criteria and percent
fulfilled are as follows: Understandability (3/7: 43%), Documentation (3/14:
21%), Buildability (4/6: 67%), Installability (5/10: 50%), Learnability (2/5:
40%). Overall Usability criteria met 17/42: 40%.

"Within Sustainability & Maintainability the criteria and percent fulfilled are:
Identity (3/7: 43%), Copyright (2/6: 33%), Licencing (4/4: 100%), Governance
(0/2: 0%), Community (2/11: 18%), Accessibility (4/11: 36%), Testability (3/17:
18%), Portability (7/11: 64%), Supportability (7/19: 37%), Analysability (6/16:
38%), Changeability (4/10: 40%), Evolvability (0/3: 0%), Interoperability (1/2:
50%). Overall Sustainability & Maintainability criteria met: 43/119: 36%.

"Overall fulfillment of criteria: 60/161 = 37%. (N/As are ignored for the
purposes of these tallies)."

[my response]

[dialogue, @CTB, add your own response and Qs]

MRC: Before the evaluation was started, how mature did you think khmer was as a
project?

CTB: 

MRC: The work required to nurture a project into one that is more sustainable is
non-trivial. How do you justify those resources?

CTB:

MRC: What particular challenges do you think scientists face in making the
software artifacts of the research process reusable and sustainable?

CTB:

[et cetera]

[Summary & conclusion]

[funding ack for MRC]

[Citations]

http://goo.gl/MZGGhc 
 
